---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - 6
---

Weeks 4 - 6 were heavily focused in exploratory analysis, data cleaning/wranging & fitting initial models. 

Data Preparation: 
Each survey was prepared to be merged in the following manner: 1) Summary statistics were calculated and analyzed. 2) Attributes were converted to the  appropriate type (numeric, ordered factor etc.) 3) Features with a high volume on NA responses were removed, then rows with NA’s were removed. Following this all surveys were joined by the ID and the first response for each participant was maintained.

Exploratory Analysis:
Included population had a mean age of 64 years old, predominantly white (n = 4954), non-Hispanic (n = 4812), educated (master’s degree or higher, n = 2,026),  retired (n = 3222), with an income of >100,000 (n = 1664).

Factors were analyzed for cross correlation using the FactorLevelCorr {SBB tools} package in R studio, documentation for the package can be found in Appendix II. Cross correlation can inflate the accuracy scores of machine learning algorithms, as such removing highly correlated factors is imperative. Weight(kgs), Height (cm) and Age were all found to be highly correlated with numerous other factors within the dataset (correlation >0.5). These features were removed. 

Initial Modeling: 
Surveys were selected if both PD and HC participants completed at least one, and the survey questions were near identical. Survey selection was completed with the goal of capturing a broad range of  information including demographic, current health, daily living, motor screening, daily activity, and the clinical global impression of change. Study dataset included the first instance of responses for 3862 PD participants and 1199 HC participants. Stress level was the target variable, and it was transformed from a 10-point Likert scale to a bivariate target feature with responses of 1-5 categorized as low/moderate stress and 6-10 as high stress. Summary statistics and multicollinearity were explored using R studio. PD and HC participants were separated into two data frames. A stratified random 80/20 testing/training set was used with cross validation for all machine learning algorithms. The Sklearn library’s Logistic regression, Decision Tree and Adaboost were trained and tested with PD/HC participants respectively. Regularization parameter was iteratively tuned for logistic regression, while GridSearchCV was utilized for parameter tuning both Decision Tree and Adaboost. PCA was also explored but did not yield desired results. 

Logistic regression predicted stress levels for PD participants with 0.76 accuracy on the testing set (0.78 training).  A precision of 0.79 (low-moderate stress)/0.54 (high stress) and recall of 0.93 (low-moderate stress)/0.26 (high stress). Of the top three absolute value coefficients , two were employment related and one was clinical global impression of change. Decision tree classifier performed with a 0.73 accuracy on the testing set (0.79 training). A precision of 0.79 (low-moderate stress)/0.46 (high stress) and recall of 0.86 (low-moderate stress)/0.34 (high stress). The top three features were no current anxiety diagnosis, employment and lower reported difficulty doing many tasks at once. Finally for the PD participants, Adaboost classifier performed with a 0.75 accuracy on the testing set (0.76 training). A precision of 0.78 (low-moderate stress)/0.53 (high stress) and recall of 0.92 (low-moderate stress)/0.25 (high stress). The top predictors were positive depression diagnosis, clinical global impression of change and employment related. 

Logistic regression predicted stress levels for HC participants with 0.72 accuracy on the testing set (0.74 training).  A precision of 0.73(low-moderate stress)/0.63 (high stress) and recall of 0.93 (low-moderate stress)/0.25 (high stress). Of the top three absolute value coefficients , two were employment related and one was current anxiety diagnosis. Decision tree classifier performed with a 0.7 accuracy on the testing set (0.76 training). A precision of 0.74 (low-moderate stress)/0.54 (high stress) and recall of 0.85 (low-moderate stress)/0.36 (high stress). The top three features were current anxiety diagnosis, employment, and education. Finally for the HC participants, Adaboost classifier performed with a 0.71 accuracy on the testing set (0.72 training). A precision of 0.73 (low-moderate stress)/0.65 (high stress) and recall of 0.93 (low-moderate stress)/0.26 (high stress). Employment, writing difficulties and clinical global impression of change.

Weeks 7 - 10 will be focused on refining models, developing tables/graphics and report writing. 

